# install-xpenology
### How to install Xpenology?
In order to install Expenology we need to have two things:
<ul>
    <li>A USB drive with the Xpenology boot-loader</li>
    <li>A pc with supported hardware</li>
</ul>


### How to create an Xpenology USB boot-loader on a Mac?
You will need to collect some information and some files before we can start with this process. First let’s create a folder called Xpenology on your desktop. We will use this folder as our project folder and will place all relevant files in here. Create a text file in Xpenology/ called config.txt

<ul>
    <li>Lets first get the information, write the following information in your config.txt file:
        <ul>
            <li>The USB drive’s PIV and VID</li>
            <li>The Mac address of the network cards that you plan to use in your build</li>
            <li>A auto generated serial number from the link below.</li>
        </ul>
    </li>
    <li>Lets now get the files. Download the following files into your Xpenology/ folder:
        <ul>
            <li>JUN’s boot-loader from the link below</li>
            <li>Finally Synology’s DSM version that works well with your boot-loader</li>
        </ul>
    </li>
</ul>


### How to get the PID and VID of my USB drive on a Mac?
Execute the following steps to get the pic and vid of your USB drive:
<ul>
    <li>Plug in the USB drive.</li>
    <li>Go to the top left of your screen and click the apple icon.</li>
    <li>Select “About This Mac”</li>
    <li>Select “System Report”</li>
    <li>Under “Hardware” select USB</li>
    <li>Then look the the right side and choose your flash drive</li>
    <li>You should now be able to read the pid and vid from the details section below that window.</li>
</ul>

### How to get the Mac address of your network cards(NIC)?
There are many ways of getting your network cards’ MAC address. We will use the router option as we have access to our router admin interface. Execute the following steps to get the MAC address of your NICs:
<ul>
    <li>Log into your router and notice all wired connected devices.</li>
    <li>Then connect your computer to the network</li>
    <li>You should now see the ip and MAC address of your build. Write this into your config.txt file.</li>
</ul>

### How to get the Autogenerated serial number?
We will generate a serial number by going to the link below, choosing our model build, and press generate. Then we copy the generated serial number to your config.txt file.

<code>https://xpenogen.github.io/serial_generator/index.html</code>

### B1 Where to download JUN’s boot loader?

<code>https://download.iroot.kr/nas/XPEnology/6.2/Bootloader/</code>

### B2 Where to download compatible Synology DSM image (pat file)?

<code>https://www.synology.com/en-us/support/download</code>

### Creating a Xpenology boot loader drive:
Then run the following terminal commands:
<ul>
    <li>unzip boot loader and place the resulting "synoboot.img" file on my desktop.</li>
    <li><code>$ cd /Desktop</code> (navigate to desktop in terminal)</li>
    <li><code>$ sudo diskutil list</code>(get USB drive's label which will look like dev/disk2 with same of different dev number)</li>
    <li><code>$ sudo diskutil unmountDisk /dev/disk2</code> (unmount the flash drive)</li>
    <li><code>$ sudo dd if=synoboot.img of=/dev/rdisk2 bs=1m</code> (copy image to flash drive)</li>
    <li><code>$ sudo diskutil list</code> (get flash drive's label again)</li>
    <li><code>$ mkdir /tmp/efi</code> (create a mount point on your local system directory)</li>
    <li><code>$ sudo mount -t msdos /dev/disk2s1 /tmp/efi</code> (mount the USB drive)</li>
    <li>open the newly mounted flash drive that will show up on the desktop</li>
    <li>go into the “grub “ folder and open the “grub.cfg” file in a text editor such as (sublime, visual studio code, etc)</li>
    <li>set the pid, vid, sn, and mac1 (if applicable mac2) values to match your configuration</li>
    <li>Save the file</li>
    <li>Eject the USB drive.</li>
    <li>You are done. Your drive is now ready.</li>
</ul>











    

 
 









